= Halen

Halen is a very simple wiki that stores its wiki pages in a Git repository.  It features Textfile formatting and Gliffy diagram integration.

= Install

    rake gems # show the needed gems; install any that are missing

Note that you cannot use the main Grit package, but must use mine; it contains an enhancement that isn't in the main repo.  Also note that, as of now, the Gliffy Ruby Client Library isn't official, so you must use mine.  Once it's blessed, I'll switch the requirements.

= Configuration

1. Configure your database as per normal with Rails.
2. Create a new git repository for your content:
    mkdir /path/to/your/git/repo
    cd /path/to/your/git/repo
    mkdir wiki
    echo "h1. This is the Main Page" > wiki/MainPage
    touch stop_words
    git init
    git add .
    git commit -m 'initial commit'
3. Configure halen. `config/config.yml` contains halen-specific configurations:
   [+git_root+]  Full path to the Git repository that contains your content (see below)
   [+wiki_name+]  Public-facing name of your wiki
   [+stop_words+]  Set to `stop_words` (unless you have a burning desire to change it; change the file in your content repo, too)
   [+wiki_description+]  A longer description of your wiki; this will show up in all HTML
   [+wiki_keywords+]  A few short keywords for your wiki; this shows up in all HTML
   [+gliffy_account_id+]  Gliffy account ID, if using Gliffy
   [+gliffy_consumer_key+]  Gliffy consumer key, if using Gliffy
   [+gliffy_consumer_secret+]  Gliffy consumer secret, if using Gliffy
   [+gliffy_description+]  Description of your app, for Gliffy tracking
   [+gliffy_username+]  Your Gliffy username, if using Gliffy
   [+gliffy_folder+]  The folder in your Gliffy account where diagrams will live for this wiki
4. Run migrations
5. Create an account for yourself.  Currently, account creation is not enabled, as I wanted this for my own devices only.  So, accounts must be created manually.
6. Start 'er up.
7. When editing pages:
   * <tt>[w:WikiName(nicer name)]</tt> or just <tt>[w:WikiName]</tt> will create links to new pages.  Click on them prompts for creation (if logged in).
   * <tt>gliffy. 1768557 | center | M</tt> adds a Gliffy diagram.  The first "param" is the id from Gliffy, the second controls the alignment (left, center, right) and the final is the size (T, S, M, L).

= Why?

I wanted to learn Rails from inception to deployment, and I wanted to do something that wasn't just a vanilla CRUD application.  I also didn't want to get wrapped up in design or complexity.  So, I figured that a wiki that had some cool features and used Git for content would be just the thing.

This is the result.  I probably denied myself some ActiveRecord knowledge by using Git (though AR is used for the user info), but this was still pretty fun and I think I learned a lot.

